I talked to about 80 creators for this
interview.
>> How's it going, Neil? I got a fun one
for you.
>> Hey, Neil, it's been a wild couple years
for YouTube.
>> What's up, Neil? Logan here. Oh, man.
>> I want to ask you their toughest
questions.
>> We are the world's first and largest
creator economy, and I intend to make
sure that we remain that way.
>> I I had a first look at these new
features that YouTube is about to
launch. I just prompted a video about
Laboos. I deep faked myself. Honestly,
Neil, I feel guilty about that video.
>> I don't think a piece of content should
be penalized just because it was created
with AI.
>> I pulled these videos from different
eras of YouTube, 2010, 2015, 2025 to now
Mr. Beast like spending like millions on
their videos.
>> I've been through all these errors.
>> If I'm being honest, like I had to take
a lot of my savings to start my YouTube
channel. And I talked to creators who
have taken up to $60,000 in loans to
start their channels. I'm wondering like
what is YouTube actually doing to help
smaller creators grow?
>> Um,
[Music]
>> all right. Make sure you subscribe and
ring the bell because we have so many
big videos coming up from interviews to
studio tours. And if you haven't
already, then go to ytackpack.com to get
our free YouTube hackpack with all our
best tips, tools, and templates to grow
on YouTube today. From our intro and
thumbnail templates to our 100 viral
ideas for any niche, we constantly
update it as we interview more creators
so you have the latest and greatest for
free. All right, now back to the video.
It's crazy being back here at YouTube.
You know, when I left my job here 7
years ago to disappoint my parents and
try to make YouTube videos full-time. I
never thought I'd be getting a chance to
interview you as CEO on our channel as
YouTube makes some of the biggest
updates in the platform's history. So,
thank you for having me.
>> Yeah, no. Thank you for being here,
John. Are your parents happy now with
what you're doing?
>> Yeah, we're making it work.
>> Proved them wrong.
>> You got a 2-year-old now, so congrats.
>> Uh, thank you. Um, so this interview
took about a year to schedule. You're
you're a busy guy.
>> I apologize. No,
>> we made it happen. We made it happen.
Excited.
>> Um, but during that time, I had a chance
to prep by talking to about 80 to 90
YouTubers.
>> Oh, wow.
>> Of all different subscriber sizes.
>> You did your homework.
>> I did. Um, and they submitted questions,
some of them in video, some of them in
text, some of them on our Discord. And
by far the number one question that we
got is what is YouTube actually doing to
help smaller creators grow?
>> And we got this question from creators
as small as yellow skin with 4K
subscribers and as big as this guy who
texted me a question that I wanted to
start off and play it for you.
>> Oh, all right. Well, I know this guy.
So, let's see what he has to say.
>> How's it going, Neil? I got a fun one
for you. So, obviously I spend millions
of dollars a video. I have hundreds of
employees. um you know, largest YouTube
channel in the world. But I'm curious,
what are you doing to help the next me,
the next Mr. Beast? Um you know, is
there anything in these updates that
will help smaller creators succeed?
Because the platform isn't just big
creators like me. It also thrives, you
know, as long as people think that they
can start a new YouTube channel and, you
know, have to make good enough videos,
build a career off of it.
>> Awesome. Well, it's great. I'd expect
nothing less from Jimmy. Uh uh by the
way, actually what I love about it is
like this is one of our most largest and
most successful creators and what he's
focused on is the next generation of
creators and really paying it forward.
And I just love that about the culture
at YouTube, right? Like that is such a
part of the creator e ethos here. And
you know ultimately for someone
uploading a creative idea to YouTube for
the first time, what really matters is
getting eyeballs on it and people to
watch it. And so, of course, as you
know, a lot about how our recommendation
systems work is it's about putting
videos recommendations in front of you
that you want to watch, but we do
reserve some inventory in those
recommendations for the discovery of new
creators.
>> Neil, to be clear on that one, cuz I
feel like I'm seeing more videos on my
homepage, and I took a bunch of
screenshots from creators that only have
a few thousand subscribers, and these
videos have a few hundred views. So, I'm
wondering, is there something going on
with the algorithm now that's different
where YouTube is trying to surface some
of these smaller videos? Like, is
YouTube reserving slots on my homepage
for these videos that don't have a ton
of views?
>> You're showing me um, you know, a bunch
of VODs, long form content. The same
thing applies in shorts. Uh, this notion
of actually having new creators get
discovered. And I think it's really
important, in fact, it's so important
within YouTube that we try to track um
as much as we can this notion of
creators getting started. And what I
mean by that is not getting started in
the literal sense of like setting up a
channel and uploading a video. Of
course, that's important. We want that
to be a seamless process, but getting
started in more of the real sense of
like feeling like they're a YouTuber,
getting some success, getting a handful
of subscribers, getting some watch time,
etc. So, we look at that
>> uh just as closely, if not even more
closely, than the health of our biggest
creators.
>> What else is uh YouTube doing to like
help new creators? Um because, you know,
there's a lot of people out there who
claim that YouTube has a creator problem
where you know, creators like Jack Film
said like YouTube is an oversaturated
platform that tends to boost already
popular content and successful channels
and you know, it's getting harder to
like break through. What would you say
to a creator like that or people who are
making videos like that in 2025?
>> There's a lot of other things that also
uh uh we're also focused on there. So,
one of the ones that I'm most excited
about actually you may have seen
recently uh speaking of Jimmy as a
collaboration between Mr. Beast and Mark
Robber for Team Water is um a a formal
collaboration feature where if you're a
creator,
>> let's say you're a large creator, you
can collaborate with up to uh a total of
five um creators to bring their channels
along to introduce your audience to
their channels. And so that's another
thing that we're very excited about,
hype, you're aware of, which is where
fans can actually uh hype up their
favorite upandcoming creators. Uh, so I
could go on and on in terms of features
and ideas that we're working on for the
next generation of creators, new
creators, creators just getting started,
uh, above and beyond what we're doing in
recommendations.
>> Yeah, I have a lot of questions about
that. For the collab feature, I was most
interested in what that meant for
smaller creators. And I actually reached
out to two smaller creators, Stixs and
Jack Gordon, who did a collab video with
Mark Robber for Team Water, and I asked
them if they could screenshot their
YouTube studio metrics for those videos.
Um, one of them had a 132x outlier on
their video, and the other one had a 21x
outlier, respectively, which was crazy
to see. In talking to your product
teams, my understanding is that before
if you had somebody in your video or on
your podcast, it would take some time to
gather signal and put it in front of
their audience to see if they like it.
But now it immediately sends your video
in front of their audience if they
accept your collab request. And even
like I just realized you could do the
collab feature retroactively. So, uh, in
the past week, I got access to it and I
went back through my podcast and invited
Jimmy to be a collab author on my
podcast with, which I think may be the
first podcast to have that feature. And
I saw a spike in views.
>> So, I think it's interesting. I think
it's also a relationship game where not
a lot of like smaller creators may know
uh these creators, but anybody could
collab at any level. Um, so it is
interesting.
>> Yeah, I think it's and you're right,
like it is some of it is a relationship
game. Obviously, you know lots of these
creators. it's easy for you to reach out
to them. Uh for up and cominging
creators, I can imagine that being
harder. But now the functionality
actually exists where uh if that larger
creator is receptive, they actually have
a product that they can use to do this.
>> And even if you're a smaller creator,
you can collab with other creators of
your size to get in front of their
audiences so you could grow even faster.
So a lot of interesting ways to use the
tool as it rolls out. It's really early
days as you know like the pro the
product is not widely available but it's
one that I'm super super excited about.
It's one that you know again back to
this ethos of our creators large
creators have asked about just as much
as up and cominging creators because
they know it's a way for them to pay it
forward as well.
>> Yeah. Uh who keeps the money when you do
a collab?
>> Uh the the the creator who started the
collab? So one creator does. So, in the
uh I think in the case of uh Jimmy and
Mark, I think it was um kind of the home
channel, if you will, was Jimmy's
channel. And so, that's where the
monetization goes. But, as you know, for
young creators, I mean, for up and
cominging creators, it's not just about
the money. It's it's often times really
about the audience as as you point out
in the in your research there.
>> Do you see a a future where the collab
feature could allow you to split revenue
between creators? I think it's really
early days and actually you know
honestly and that might be the case at
some point but all the
>> both the asks for this feature and and
um uh the the feedback on it has really
been around audience and engagement and
it's back to this kind of you know I
have something interesting I really want
to share it with as wide of an audience
as possible and that's that's what the
ask has been it's really about audience
building. Yeah. And you could also share
analytics on the tool.
>> You can share analytics. Uh you can um
so yeah that that has been uh a key part
of it. The other thing that I should
mention that's super important around
it. You know your your question around
monetization reminded me um you know
we're giving lots of creator examples
especially upand cominging creators new
creators but it's also something that
can work for uh brands brands as
creators as well. So, you know, if
you're a creator like John, you can
collaborate like you did with with
Jimmy, but you can also collaborate with
a brand or a sponsor as well. And so,
that's another use case that I'm super
excited about.
>> And another update I saw is that YouTube
is working on autodubbing your videos
with with multiple audio tracks, but
also I saw that you guys are working on
reanimating a creator's lips, so it
sounds like they're speaking the foreign
language more naturally, even if they
don't know it.
about the things that have really
changed. First of all, the camera
department. There have been some
interesting upgrades.
>> Yeah, I think multitrack audio is going
to be one that uh is not just the
purview of large creators, but for upand
cominging creators as well because it
turns out that one of the biggest
barriers to growth if the algorithm is
efficient is actually language. I pulled
these videos from different eras of
YouTube from 2010, 2015, 2025.
>> Nice.
>> And seeing like the double rainbow era,
like the annoying orange to the Tyler
Oakley and Bethany Moda era of people
vlogging their rooms to now, you know,
Mark Robber, Michelle Kari, Mr. Beast,
like spending like millions on their
videos. And I know YouTube has paid over
70 billion dollars to creators in the
past three years, which is far more than
any other digital platform. But
especially as I talked to a lot of
creators like like Neil, if I'm being
honest, like I I did take a lot of my
savings to start my YouTube channel
after I I left my corporate jobs. And I
talked to creators like Matthew Beam who
took $60,000 in loans to start his
YouTube channel and he's made it now. He
has over 5 million subscribers. But
there's a lot of creators who who don't.
And I'm wondering what is YouTube doing
to help these creators earn more and
build bigger businesses to keep up with
the content quality bar that keeps
rising.
>> The way I think about it is that we are
the the the world's first and largest
creator economy and I intend to make
sure that we remain that way.
>> We've paid out, you know, billions and
billions of dollars to the creator uh
ecosystem over the last several years
and we want that to continue to grow.
And so first and foremost, it's
continuing to make sure that um what
creators can earn from ads is something
that grows with their success. And what
that means is you have to deliver
highquality
advertising products to advertisers and
brands. And so that's an area that we
don't actually talk a lot about much
because it's not as much creator facing,
but it's an enormous amount of our
resources going to making it so that the
ad products that advertisers are
spending billions of dollars on actually
works for them. And of course, that
translates into revenue for for
creators. And so that's first and
foremost. It's the least talked about uh
uh but it's the most important.
>> Yeah. Um, and then it's making sure that
creators can re earn revenue not just
from ads, but also from brand deals for
creators, especially some of our larger
creators who I know generate a lot of
their revenue outside of YouTube ads and
through brand deals. So, we're very
focused on that last piece.
>> Yeah. Tell me about what's new when it
comes to helping creators get brand
deals because I I had a first look at
these new features that YouTube is about
to launch. And one of the ones that I
think is going to change the way
creators go about sponsorships is
dynamic ad placements.
>> Can you tell me about that change and
what's coming to YouTube?
>> Yeah, so that's a feature I'm also very
excited about. And so um you know as you
know and you you know we see this in our
own sort of watching experience
uh creators especially larger creators
are increasingly working with different
brands different products different
different retailers
>> and those sort of sponsored moments the
that that video segment is often burned
into their videos like they record it
basically alongside the videos that
they're uploading to YouTube. Well um
what if you could make that dynamic?
What if you could actually specify
within your video where the best places
to actually insert those placements and
make it so that you can swap those out
um maybe a year down the road, maybe two
years down the road, maybe you know
within a week or what have you depending
on what your business objectives are,
the deals that you have with your
sponsors, that makes that inventory
within that video much more valuable
because it delivers better ROI for the
brands. And so, uh, dynamic brand
moments is something I'm very excited
about. That's not the only feature
though that we're that we're doing for
brands.
>> Just to take a moment on that because I
I think that's a big deal. And again,
it's going to change a lot of the ways
that creators go about working with
brands. I was trying to make sense of it
because right now you kind of almost
have these like three different ads. you
have auto mid rolls, you know, where the
algorithm essentially decides or you
could place like ads that the Google ads
team has sourced and places in um and
you could change those around like those
are kind of status quo. The other thing
that we have right now are these
burnt-in sponsorships as you said like a
creator speaks to camera as part of the
video and that's there and unless you
trim it out it stays within the video.
This new feature is going to allow you
to put something in in a given time
stamp.
>> Mh.
>> And then, let's say you have a deal with
a sponsor and say, "I'm going to deliver
you 1 million impressions." Once that is
met,
>> you could then take that out of the
video and go sell that spot to another
sponsor. Or if I want to swap in a new
brand read because I did a holiday
campaign for a sponsor and now the
holiday's over and I want to swap in
something more evergreen for them. I can
now do that too with this new feature.
Is that right?
>> That's exactly right. Yes. And and if I
want I'm just thinking like big here
like if I want to sell that ad placement
you know geographically will there be a
capability to do that too like send one
sponsorship for all US viewers show
>> eventually we'd like to get to that and
by the way
>> to Mexico etc.
>> That's how adword that's how ad systems
work today. So actually what you're
describing is,
you know, it's interesting like the line
between sort of like traditional media
advertising and brand sponsorships is a
bit of a blurry line and actually a lot
of it depends on what you as the creator
>> have negotiated or what terms you've
come to with the brand that you're
working with.
>> And so that could be a delineation.
Right now it's really more around sort
of like you as a creator, how you're
thinking about it sort of over time,
>> but we want to build more functionality
there um as well. Um but that's
>> again that's one feature that I'm very
excited about. Um another so and that
has been a big ask. Creators have asked
me for that. Another one that creators
talk to me about um pretty regularly is
um shorts is a great place for um for
brands and creators to collaborate. Um
and um so one of the things that we're
very excited about is actually allowing
in YouTube shorts for the first time the
ability to actually link to the brands
from the shorts. And so again, something
that I think will be valuable to users,
but also valuable to creators because
they're now making it making their
partnership even more valuable to the
brand. So it's like it's like one of
those sort of trifecta type features
that I think can work for fans,
creators, and brands all at once. So
that's another
>> back to your original question of like
what are we doing to enhance
monetization? That's another feature
that I'm excited about. So you you could
link to the brand's landing page or like
cuz I know previously you guys had taken
away LinkedIn shorts.
>> Yeah. So this is actually a brand new
feature that's literally about
>> this brand sponsorship's use case within
the shorts feed.
>> Yeah. Amazing. Um what are you doing for
creators who want to work with the
brand? They may talk about them
organically but they can't get in touch
with them. Uh like Yeah. How what do you
what are you doing for those smaller
creators? Yeah, I think that's super
important, too, because brands
sometimes, especially large brands, they
want to work with many creators at once.
And so, uh, we're also the third thing
that we're we're building that I'm
excited about is something called, uh,
creator partnerships hub. And it's it's
kind of actually the way you just
described it, John, which is like it's a
it's a marketplace that brings creators
and brands together. Because you're
right, like small creators in particular
um might have amazing content that can
work for various brands, but they don't
really know how to reach out to them.
But actually, believe it or not, it goes
in the other direction as well. Brands
are also looking um to work with
obviously the amazing large creators
that exist on YouTube, but they're also
looking to work with up and upcoming
creators, many creators who have amazing
content, but they may have not heard
about. So, this is a place to kind of
bring both those sides together.
>> And I guess what's new as well is
there's a lot of marketplaces out there
right now, a lot of thirdparty ones that
try to match brands and creators.
>> This one that YouTube is putting out is
one where it'll take some of the videos
that are already organically made by
creators. Like, let's say you want to,
you know, work with Nike. You're making
videos where you're giving Nike a shout
out organically
>> through this portal. Nike would then
start to see these videos. Yeah.
>> And then, you know, there could be a
message or outreach like trying to make
that happen. He can decide like, "Yeah,
this works. This is super interesting. I
want to collaborate and and kind of and
and connect through this this hub."
>> Wow. After a creator makes a video
without even having a relationship,
having a contact at the brand.
>> Correct.
>> Interesting.
>> One of the other big changes actually
which I think is very important in terms
of our support for
>> for um upandcoming creators is something
that we actually did actually a couple
years ago now. It was it hearkens back
to our very first made on YouTube um
which is um create a new tier for
monetization. So there was always the
the YPP tier around ads monetization
um you know thousand subs you know kind
of that that sort of um tier. We've
expanded it as you know since then and
introduced a tier where uh you are
eligible for a lot of our fan funding
features at a lower threshold. And so,
uh, expanding both, uh, tools to help
young, uh, up and cominging creators get
discovered, but also helping them
monetize.
>> Yeah. Another huge topic that a lot of
creators have asked about is AI. And how
will that impact our monetization, the
discovery of our videos, especially as
there's some studios and faceless
channels out there that make a ton of AI
generated content, and obviously that
competes for the same digital real
estate that our human content does. And
I know as part of this launch, YouTube
is actually launching a ton of new AI
tools. One I saw a first look of where
you could turn your speech into a song.
I saw this tool that you guys are
launching where it takes a bunch of
videos from your camera roll and turns
it into a full-fledged short, like a
recipe tutorial. Um, this other one that
inserts a photo of you into a dance
video so you could partake in a trend.
And I know Google has V3 and I get the
validity behind it. like for a newer
creator like that makes it easier to
upload kind of like a filter did back in
the day for a photo and we're just in
the first inning of all this and there's
a ton of AI slop out there as well and
and so knowing all this I wanted to
tee up a question from none other than
Logan Paul and get your thoughts.
>> Okay, what's up Neo? Logan here. I'm
curious what type of AI content will be
eligible for monetization on YouTube and
not get dinged in the algorithm. I think
a lot of AI studios are going to be
popping up here as it becomes more and
more prominent. And I'm wondering how
YouTube is going to handle it because I
think there's a misconception at the
moment with how much work goes into some
of the highquality top tier AI content
that's being made. Um, and people just
don't know about it. And some of it's
generated fully, some of it's half
generated and mixed in with traditional
media techniques. And so I'm just
curious how YouTube's going to be
handling this AI revolution because I
think it's going to be really prominent
and a lot of content will be generated.
>> Yeah. Oh man, this is a super
interesting question. Um, and I think
even the way Logan framed it is is
actually sort of the right way to to to
frame it, which is um, what I would say
first and foremost is I don't think um,
our systems, whether it's, you know, the
algorithm that that he Logan's alluding
to or monetization or what have you,
should
honestly discriminate one way or the
other whether something was generated
via AI like VO or something like that or
done sort of tradition with a
traditional sort of camera or some
combination. Um just like um uh new
video editing tools are invented all the
time, new ways to modify your video are
being invented all the time. I really
view all of these AI tools that we're
creating as exactly that tools. like
they should enable creative people like
yourself, like Logan, like others to to
do what they do best, which is produce
amazing content for for their audiences.
And so that's the first thing that I
will say and I think that that applies
to our discovery algorithms. It applies
to monetization.
Um, having said that, um, I also
recognize that with AI tools, um, the
cost of production,
um, uh, can go down dramatically if
you're just in the business of trying to
produce as like a giant quantity of
content and sort of put it out there to
see what happens. Like that has now
become dramatically easier. So I think
it is incumbent on how YouTube works to
make sure that we are not, you know,
that users don't get flooded with, you
know, quote unquote sort of low
lowquality content or what have you. Um,
you know, just like we worked really
hard to eliminate the clickbait problem
that used to exist, you know, years and
years ago in the thumbnails and really
focus on things like sort of long-term
satisfaction on YouTube. um that's the
way that I think about approaching it
both in terms of um discovery of of this
type of content but also in terms of
monetization. So no a priority ding or
sort of prejudice around it but
recognizing that these tools might
result in some of that type of content
being produced and making sure that our
systems are capable and robust enough to
be able to deal with them. That's how I
think about it. We also have a lot of
community guidelines already in place
where if you're a creator that is
uploading, you know, fully synthetic
content, you should, you know, indicate
that in the upload and then we place
that sort of label sometimes on the
video itself, but oftentimes just in the
metadata. Again, just as a service to
all of your fans and users so that they
can recognize that um yeah, this was
produced in this particular fashion. And
by the way, every piece of content on
YouTube, whether it's produced, you
know, kind of with a camera, with AI
tools, with some combination, is also of
course subject to our our community
guidelines um around, you know,
deceptive practices and all that sort of
stuff as well.
>> I wanted to make this really specific by
putting this on a spectrum of of fully
human to fully AI. And these these are
videos that um you know, I've seen or
I've made. So like this one is one that
you know I spent hundreds of dollars
editing uh my own camera, my own face,
everything fully human. This one is one
where I prompted the idea from AI, you
know, um there's a lot of like tools out
there like it gave me an idea, I started
talking, you know, I prompted the
script, tweaked it partially AI. This
one is like I I just prompted a video
about laboo which I know nothing about
and and I deep fake.
>> Now you're an expert.
>> I honestly Neil I feel guilty about that
video because because here's me talking
about laboo
>> and all these amazing graphics and and
this cost a fraction of the price. We we
use this tool called um Agent Opus from
Opus Club. And then on the other side of
the spectrum, this is from a channel
that has over 1 million subscribers.
This video has about 30 million
subscribers. Um, there's no face. It's a
ton of like content like on their
channel that's very much like this AI
kitten like kind of going about their
day. I'm I'm just wondering like what's
the difference in monetization discovery
between these types of videos?
>> Yeah. Um, what do you think the
difference should be?
>> I think it's it's it's a big question,
but I think this one uses my name,
image, and likeness.
>> And there should be parameters where if
it's deep faked by somebody else, and
there should be a content ID that clamps
down on that. Um,
the topic I I I don't know. I I'm
curious to hear your take. Um,
>> but this one is the thing I feel really
weird about.
>> What do you think should be the case in
that in in that last example?
>> I don't I don't know. What do What do
you think?
>> Like what do you what do you think?
That's a big question. You know,
>> I think I think it is. Um uh I think
that um you know the third one in your
in your example there. I do think that
at least in my view um that one is and
obviously there's all kinds of context
and sort of which channels and whose
channel and who did that and what was
labeled and you know all that sort of
stuff really matters um to answer sort
of definitively but I think in general
>> the way that you described or used the
content ID analogy applies um it's the
reason why I have been very public about
creators and you know I use the term
creator here very broadly creators
artists, musicians, etc. should be able
to protect their likeness, their face,
their voice um on YouTube. And I think
that this is a place where YouTube um is
not just um you know, a collection of
words and statements. It's not just me
saying that. We have a long track record
here of living up to that principle and
you described it. It's called content
ID. And that of course exists in sort of
the copyright realm, but I think a lot
of those analogies carry forward into
the AI world. You're right. If there's a
video that basically looks and sounds
like John, like that's saying stuff that
is pulling your audience or, you know,
>> tricking your audience or what have you,
then there should be some action. And
so, so I'm agreeing with sort of your
your approach on that one. And what
about studios that make this content
that almost it's so easy for them and
it's so hard for us human creators that
it kind of takes away that digital real
estate on YouTube.
>> I think this is goes back to what I said
is I don't think a piece of content
should be penalized just because it was
created with AI. There's going to be
amazing content that is produced with AI
and being short-sighted about it I think
is not good for the creator ecosystem
and it's not good for YouTube. So that
that's the sort of the high level
statement. Having said that, as you
said, uh, and I, you know, I I don't
know anything about this particular
video or whether it's high quality or
low quality or what have you, but
understanding the problem as I described
it, which is these tools might result in
the production of amazing content, they
will, but they might also result in the
easy production of content that is
generally
um, you know, whatever clickbay or
lowquality or what have you. then it's
incumbent on YouTube to make sure that
we address that on the platform so it
doesn't become overrun with that type of
content. And that's no different than um
the way that I described how we dealt
with challenges like clickbait, you
know, years ago.
>> A lot of creators also have questions
about YouTube's new AI age verification
tool where YouTube is using AI to
estimate the age of a viewer and if it's
less than 18 years old, they'll be
restricted from watching certain videos
on YouTube. And especially for creators
who have younger audiences, I I've been
talking to them. They're worried that
their videos will get fewer views and
they'll make less money from it. And
beyond that, it may set a precedent for
privacy because to correct this AI
estimation, um if you are indeed above
18 years old, you have to give your
credit card, your government ID, take a
photo. Um so I'm wondering why is this
happening now? And is there truth to
those concerns from these creators?
>> Yeah. No, thank you for asking uh giving
me a chance to to respond to that. I
mean, I just kind of first taking a step
back. I mean, a lot of this comes from
conversations that we have with parents
and you know, obviously stakeholders in
government and regulators and what have
you uh about concerns around young
people and of course as you all know
there's young people on our platform. We
have for particularly young kids, we
have YouTube kids, of course, um but we
have, you know, things like supervised
experiences on on YouTube. And so young
people are on on YouTube and we want to
make sure that that is a safe experience
for them, an experience that um you
know, I'm a parent, I've got three kids,
uh that um I as a parent can be
comfortable with. And so that's the
that's the kind of strategic rationale
behind age assurance. And this is a this
is a concept of course that is not new.
It's been in place in other parts of the
world for some time now. I think that
was something that maybe got lost in a
little bit of the discourse. So, for
example, uh it's been a mechanism that's
been in place in Europe for I think
three, four, maybe even longer uh years
now. Um and so we have some experience
with it because it was mandated. Um and
you know there's obviously lots of uh
government chatter around that type of
concept here in the US. And so that's
the that's the backdrop. Um, in terms of
how it works, I think it's really as the
way you described, which is, um, despite
what that user might have said during
the sign up for their, you know, YouTube
account, um, it might be that, um, uh, a
combination of signals are saying that
it's actually a user that's under 18.
And when that's the case, we want to
make sure that that's an appropriate um
uh experience for that user, including
all these features and functionality,
you know, take a break, well-being,
reminders, etc., take a break, etc.,
work in a way that they are designed to
work for users under 18. That's the
motivation. And I think that that's um
that's that that's sort of the context
for it in terms of the actual
implementation and sort of the impact
and and what have you. Um it's still
sort of very very early days. My
experience is it's going to lead
ultimately to a better experience for
users and therefore in the long run uh
for creators. Um if there is a
mclassification
um then there is sort of an escape valve
as you described through whatever
government ID or whatever sort of you
know selfie uh mechanism there is that
is based on a set of technologies that
are I think some of the most robust and
sort of privacy safe in the world sort
of built with kind of Google technology.
Uh and of course you know if you don't
want to do use those and you don't have
to you can still use YouTube obviously
in a logged out state etc. And so that's
a little bit of of kind of the
background on all of this, but I think
the context of where it came from, it
wasn't something that came out of the
blue. It's a it's something that I think
I I sort of um alluded to back in my
annual letter back all the way in in
February of this year. And so it's
something that we uh I sort of
pre-announced back then and it's
something that we've been working very
cautiously on with parents, with you
know, other stakeholders, with our
creator community for months now. and
obviously um will have a gradual roll up
on it. So it's something that we um uh
don't just sort of pull out of thin air.
It's something that uh I've considered
very deeply. It's what our teams have
considered through multiple you know
product reviews, design reviews. um you
know decision- making at YouTube just by
definition is always you know a
trade-off between multiple different
types of things whether it's you know
making sure that the creator ecosystem
is healthy making sure that we're doing
the right thing for users particularly
young users and so all of that
consideration and sort of thought and
careful thought uh went into this
feature I want to assure everybody of
that um uh and and that's why we came to
the conclusion that we did and that's
why we're approaching it that the way uh
that we're approaching it. Um because on
balance, I think it's the right thing to
do um for our ecosystem on YouTube.
>> What about viewer? Like I have a
2-year-old now, so my YouTube is like
filled with like Bluey and Miss Rachel
or there's a lot of adults who watch
Pokemon content. Is there a worry there
that they'll be mclassified and then
ultimately the creator will lose out on
those views from people who are over 18?
I think that that's why we have the
escape file mechanisms that exist so
it's very easy to verify your age um if
you're mclassified for for sort of
whatever reason there. Um rest assured
that even the way that the algorithm
works it's able to the algorithm uh in
terms of making this uh determination
gets more sophisticated and better over
time. As I said, it's been something
that um
>> we wouldn't have rolled out if I didn't
feel like it operated at an incredibly
high level of precision.
>> Um so that's that's sort of uh the way
that we've approached it. The use cases
that you're describing are obviously
ones that we've sort of thought about
and uh we wouldn't have done it if it
would lead to kind of all kinds of
mclassification left and right.
>> Another thing is the way people are
watching YouTube is completely changed.
TV is becoming a bigger platform and so
I want to tee up a question along those
lines from Cleo Abram.
>> Hey John. Hey Neil. It's been a wild
couple years for YouTube and YouTube
creators. YouTube is the most watched
streaming platform on televisions and
has been for the last two years. It's
really exciting and I always love to
imagine the optimistic future. So my
question is imagine you're doing another
interview in two years. What do you hope
you're saying about YouTube as TV?
Thanks.
>> That's a super interesting question. Um
the uh and what I would say first what
I'd say to Cleo is um
all this you know kind of momentum that
you see out there and you know what you
might you know observe in terms of the
overall sort of streaming numbers on TV
etc. YouTube's leadership position, you
know, of a billion hours worth of, you
know, watch time on on TVs and, you
know, number one in streaming for the
last two years, uh, and and on and on.
Um, feels like an overnight success, but
it's been many, many years in the
making. I remember starting our first
sort of very robust investments from a
technology and product standpoint uh, on
television screens um, years ago, even
years before COVID. Everybody thinks
that obviously there was a big
inflection point during COVID and of
course there was, but a lot of the kind
of the the seeds were planted well
before COVID in terms of um making it so
that we had a YouTube experience that
was sort of seamless across the hundreds
if not thousands of different device
types that they were out there in the
living room. Making sure that we had a
robust partnership and certification
programs with the OEMs and
manufacturers. making sure that we
brought all the magic, the
interactivity, the ease of use that you
experience with YouTube on your phones
and tried to translate that to
television. And then finally, making it
sure that that biggest screen in your
home reflected sort of the quality of
creators like Cleo and cinematic
experiences, episodic experiences, etc.
So, it's been an area that we've been
investing in TVs for a very long time.
in terms of two years from now um sort
of connecting some of our conversations
together. Uh I do think that AI will m
will play a big role in terms of making
that TV experience even more magical.
Not in terms of creation necessarily.
Obviously all of that that applies to TV
but other areas as well. but on
televisions in particular around things
like uh voice and and and the like to
make it so that um you can interact with
your television screens in a very
seamless way whether you're learning you
know a new piece of you know whatever
math or algebra what have you or
watching your favorite creator. Um so
that's one area that I'm very excited
about. Uh I also think that the growth
of um different types of uh of content,
you know, one of the things that I've
learned about television uh is that for
young people in particular, YouTube is
TV. And so they expect everything from,
you know, 15 seconds short to 15minute
VOD to 15 hour live stream all
seamlessly within their television
experience. And that's an area that
we're uh going to continue to invest on.
And so, um, two years from now, if
you're asking me that question, that's
really what I would say, uh, about
television.
>> Yeah, it's really interesting to see
where YouTube is going. And, uh, yeah,
Neil, I just want to also close by
saying thank you. I know these are some
hard questions, but I think it's because
creators care a lot and, uh, a lot of us
like including myself like building our
livelihood on this platform uh, to, you
know, uh, feed our families and, uh,
provide like, uh, entertainment for the
masses. It just means the world to have
an outlet like this.
>> Yeah. Take the time. Oh, I mean, look,
as I said, I mean, we're really inspired
by your success, all of your peer
creator success. Like, it is amazing to
see uh all of these faces and all this
content that I, as a fan, watch on a
regular basis. And it's really a
privilege to to get to lead lead the
team that builds all of this amazing uh
technology and products for all of you.
>> Thank you, Neil. Okay, so we covered a
ton there and there's still a lot more
that I would have loved to get into, but
obviously we only have so much time with
these things, but I want to break down
some of the other big changes that are
coming to YouTube after speaking more
with Neil off camera along with many of
the teams at YouTube to get you guys the
full story and share some of the other
updates that are going to be important
for your channel. And to everyone who
submitted questions, especially video
questions from Casey Neistat that we
couldn't get to, Jacqueline, and so many
others, hopefully um some of these
updates can help beyond what we
discussed in the interview. So, another
big update that's coming is called Ask
Studio. So, think of this as your
co-pilot inside YouTube Studio. So, you
can ask it questions like, "Why did my
video bomb?" or "Analyze the biggest
dips in retention across my past videos
and tell me what caused them." Like,
literally that specific of a question
you can ask it. And I was pleasantly
surprised. It was really cool to see how
detailed it got when answering my
questions to the point where it even
looked at the comments on my YouTube
videos to see if there were any patterns
to learn from for my next upload. So,
interesting tool. Next is AI clipping
for long form and live. Basically, you
can now turn long form videos and live
stream into shorts fast right on
YouTube. So, YouTube's AI scans your
content, finds the highlights, suggests
the clips based on where you have the
most retention, and boom, you have
shorts immediately made for you. Okay.
Next is autodubbing with lip
reanimation, which we touched on briefly
in the interview, but here's a few more
details that are worth covering. Okay.
Essentially, until recently, if your
video was in Italian, let's say, that's
all it was. Like, anybody who saw that
video can only watch it in Italian.
Then, YouTube launched multitrack audio,
which means the same video in Italian
can be dubbed and watched in any
language, and all the views count
towards the same video, which was huge.
Soon, here's the crazy thing that's
going to happen. YouTube is launching
dubbing and lip reanimation. So, if
you're watching a video in French, a
creator's lips will move one way and
then if you switch the language to
Spanish, a creator's lips will move
another way, so it looks more natural.
Basically, dubs are getting way more
realistic and way more affordable with
AI, which will help unlock a ton of
growth internationally, as Neil talked
about. The next update is with the
inspiration tab in YouTube Studio.
Basically, it's getting revamped. So,
you'll now have an expanded idea feed, a
spark page where creators can save notes
and ideas, a pitch page where creators
can explore and assess an idea, content
planning, and so much more. And I know,
I know I've seen the videos from
Corridor Crew and other creators, uh,
asking about how good the ideas in the
inspiration tab actually are. But it
looks like they're improving, which is
cool to see. So, basically, to break
down, ask Studio, the tool we talked
about before, is to understand your
current videos from the past. And the
inspiration tab is a new way to
brainstorm your next videos for the
future. Next is the collab tool. I know
we talked about this in the interview,
but there's a few more details that I
thought it'd be worth sharing. So,
first, you can collab with up to four
people on one video. Next, the collabs
will not show up on your guest channel
page, only your channel. That's an
important nuance. And as Neil says, the
home channel, whoever starts the video,
creates the video keeps the monetization
for now. And personally, I think two
things are about to happen with this. If
you're a podcaster, the second you get
access to the collab tool, go back
through your entire catalog and send
collab requests to any guests that you
think would accept it. That's going to
be huge. I've already started doing that
and started seeing impact on this
channel. Secondly, I think this is going
to be an amazing way for creators who
want to launch a second channel to give
life to that channel by collabing it
with their main channel. It's going to
be much bigger. So, watch for that
behavior. I think a lot more of that is
going to happen. Next update is AB
testing for titles where you can test
different titles for your video until
YouTube selects the best one based on
watch time. So, I got early access to
this and it's been a game changer
because I love that I can now pair a
specific title with a specific thumbnail
visual. Whereas before, I can only test
one title across a three thumbnails with
the AB testing feature that was
available there. Next, we got hype,
which I want to go into more detail
about since I think this will be a big
deal, too. So hyping a video basically
means upvoting it so it ultimately can
go out in a leaderboard where even more
people can discover your video. So
anyone can hype a video and get three
free hypes, three free votes per week as
a viewer. But you can only hype videos
that were posted in the past week and
are from creators who have between 500
subscribers to 500,000 subscribers. So
this should lead to more smaller
creators breaking through. Next update
is AI B-roll for audio podcast. Okay, so
if you don't have a camera or you do
audio only, YouTube will actually help
you generate videos for your podcast
using VO3. It'll analyze your transcript
and create visuals that you could
customize. Like watch this. All these
videos are being generated from what
YouTube is hearing from your audio only
podcast.
>> Parakeet trade really picked up in the
1960s. More than 60,000 parakeetses were
imported to North America in just three
years.
>> And my take is will this be as good as
video podcast? No. But is it better than
those waveform u style visuals on on
audio only podcast today? Yes. Next up
is co-streaming or watch with. This
basically enables anyone to give
commentary on a live event. Like imagine
your favorite sports creator giving live
reactions to the big game. And my take
is that this will lead to the rise of a
new class of a news anchors or sports
commentator creators especially as
YouTube invests in more partnerships
like the NFL. So yeah, there's a ton
there. And if you have any questions
about that, comment below and I'll try
to respond or join our newsletter at
created.news news where I reply to
nearly every email that comes in. So,
thank you again to Neil, Renee, Andrew,
and everyone else at YouTube who made
this happen.